“There is no boy so poor,” said Phillips Brooks, “so ignorant, so
outcast, that I do not stand in awe before him.” “I feel a profounder
reverence for a boy than a man,” said President Garfield. “I never meet
a ragged boy on the street without feeling that I owe him a salute, for
I know not what possibilities may be buttoned up under his coat.” “Why,
bless me! Is that the boy who did so gallantly in those two battles?”
asked President Lincoln as a lad from the gunboat Ottawa was introduced
to him. “Why, I feel as though I should take off my hat to him, and not
he to me.”

“Get out of my way! What are you good for anyhow?” asked a cross man to
a lad who happened to be standing in his way. The boy replied, “They
make men out of such things as I am.” How true. That dirty boy taken by
a philanthropist in New Orleans, only for the reason that he was an
orphan, became Sir Henry M. Stanley, who found Livingstone and opened
Africa. About fifty years ago, when New York City sought to aid her
homeless children, an agent called on Judge John Green, of Tixston,
Indiana, to inquire if he would take a boy. Mr. Green said, “I will, if
you will bring me the raggedest, dirtiest and ugliest one of the lot.” A
boy by the name of John Brady more than filled the bill. He was
accepted, educated and became a missionary to Alaska. So suitable a man
was he for commissioner of that unexplored land of wealth, that
President Harrison appointed him governor.

Who can value the worth of a boy? Like Moses, Luther, or Lincoln, he
might rise to bless a nation. Boyhood is the blossom that ripens into
manhood. It is the formative period of one’s character. Said Lord
Collingwood to a young friend, “You must establish a character before
you are twenty-five that will serve you all life.” The building of such
is the greatest earthly task, and he is the greatest man “who chooses
right with the most invincible resolution, who resists the sorest
temptation from within and without, who is most fearless under menaces
and frowns, whose reliance on truth, on virtue, and on God, is most
unfaltering.”

To aid in the growth of such is this work written. It is hoped that it
will be transformed into an epitome, a registry of the reader’s own
life—a compilation and condensation of the best things he shall finally
leave to those who survive him. For it should